New players: Start Here!

Marble Blast is an excellent game that is pretty easy to pick up. However before you jump into it, you should know there is a certain game order. Follow it and you'll gain maximum enjoyment and you'll become good as well.

First off, it's recommended that you play the game online, as your stats will be recorded and you'll be ranked against other players. You can also chat with other players who are currently online!

If you want to jump right into the action, head straight into PlatinumQuest (PQ). You'll learn the basics fairly quickly, and play through some of the most well-designed Marble Blast levels ever created. There are lots of features in PQ, such as the Cannon or Ice Shard, that aren't seen in any other game.

However, if PlatinumQuest is too difficult for you, you can switch to Marble Blast Gold (MBG) or Marble Blast Ultra (MBU) levels to play what could be considered an extended tutorial. After you are able to complete most of these levels, PlatinumQuest should be a lot easier to play.

Once you've mastered controlling the marble with these three games, you may want to try Marble Blast Platinum (MBP). It's filled with long and challenging levels that put even the most experienced players' skills to the test. Some techniques learned in MBP and PQ are used extensively in custom-made levels.

If you find yourself getting stuck on a particular level in any of these games, don't be afraid to skip it and come back to it later. You can also switch to level sets from the different games whenever you want, so, for instance, you could practice a skill in MBG before putting it to use in MBP.

After you've mastered most of these levels and learned most of the techniques, you can start going after Gold Scores, Platinum Scores, and Ultimate Scores. Every level has some of these set -- you'll need to work hard to achieve a lot of them, as they can be incredibly difficult to reach. Don't be afraid to watch videos or ask other players for advice!

While you're doing all that, you can also hop in to Multiplayer. You will find a range of players with different skills. Don't worry if you get beaten down, as some players have played this game for years and have had thousands if not tens of thousands of hours of experience, grinding down many levels. Some players will be easier to beat and you'll learn how to play Multiplayer with their help; don't hesitate to ask for helpful advice as well, we'll be happy to teach.

Our community is very friendly and we are always happy to meet new people. Don't be afraid if you feel bad, we all started where you are and got better with practice. Essentially if you are fun to play with, you will always get people to play with you, no matter your skill level.

Enjoy Marble Blast!